mmm four three two boom and will I Pat
alright sir good of the University of
badassery ha ha ha ha I'm more like the
UH I'm more like the vice president oh
yeah the president probably uh CJ Ortiz
easier but he's the president of the
university of badassery my co-host and
of a little podcast we do dude I fucking
love your Instagram page if there's a
guy be surfing I'm gonna call when the
shit hits the fan all right might be you
whoo rock and roll baby
I'm there for your brother I also like
guys who are my age or older that still
get after it in the gym and your fucking
page is filled with you getting after it
but we could go on we could full a full
segment I'm that alone yeah and and the
secret the big secret behind it which
there's not much of a secret as you know
yeah I mean it's hard work sucks and not
everybody's cut out for it yeah people
just don't enjoy it yep they try to find
a lot of a lot of nice excuses yeah why
they don't get after it
yeah one of the big excuses is age yeah
I run into guys all the time during my
full-time training gig REM training guys
on the range who say you know I'm 38 or
40 or whatever and I'm getting old I'm
like bro let me tell you something this
is this is something somebody told me
when I was 30 and I've got affirmation
of this from guys like you who've stayed
fit their entire lives the fittest of a
man's age is around like 44 or 45 that's
when you could be on the top of your
game and ultra rares yeah you know the
strongest the fastest the fittest the
smartest you know when it comes to
knowing your body and and how much you
can do and how much you could take after
that then you got to start being a lot
smarter
you know you die how you work out how
often you know you like I'm super
tentative now not to overwork yeah me
too
because
I've been told there is no such thing as
overwork but there is a such thing is
under recovery I I err on the side of
caution a lot yeah more now and I've got
it down man I started this system combat
strength training mmm-hmm
when I retired from the military because
when I retired from the military retired
for reconstructive surgeries 13 broken
bones and any ground pounder who's you
know special ops guy who did 20-plus
years there's a lot of freaking mileage
on that combat chassis right you know
he's jacked up would you get
reconstructed the first one was this
bicep I was a towed jumper doesn't have
to make sense what does it mean it's
related to static line jumping where you
passed a static line off to a jump
master he secures it and the static line
at the end of the static line deploys
your parachute so it's like you know
it's like rookie jumping it's AB it's
real infantry BASE jumping well that
static line got wrapped around my
reserve and around my arm and pulled me
with the plane and it pulled my bicep
into my forearm broke ribs dislocated
shoulder concussion and this is when I
was fucking 18 years old just saw it and
I already got jacked up next one was um
diskectomy l5 s1 just come just a kind
of an amalgamation of helo crashes and
vehicle crashes and stuff like that if
people don't know what that means it
means your disks they trim a little
piece of it so it doesn't go against
your nerve yeah and it was it was a
massive herniation so they were able to
take the big chunk out and then do that
trim up as well which is that's easy
surgery ever had really knee
reconstruction sucked I mean I was a
full freakin year six months of you know
getting back on your feet and then
another year before I was like a hundred
percent right and I was I think I was
still in my 20s did you get a a CL
reconstruction sass center patellar
tendon yeah I did that one hole
hardened that's a hard one I did the
other one with allograft
yeah cadaver it's way easier really so
it's six months six months and I was
100% man yeah cuz I first difference yep
damn that's a big chunk of time yeah
yeah it's but the other thing is that
sometimes people's bodies reject those
allograft right didn't have with me I
got lucky but I I dunno if some people
and also it feels like it's healed
before it's really healed who do you
know how that works the what what
happens is they take that graft and they
put it in there and then instead of that
being your new ligament your body has to
replace that with tissue so your broad
eight body has to repro livery that
tendon with its own cells and so it
takes a long time so what it feels
stable you're like oh my knees back my
my legs feel strong and then you go to
pivot to throw a punch or something like
that pop pop it just pops like a wet
piece of toilet paper yeah yeah you know
some people they say some people are a
seal depend and others are not but man I
needed that one died because I don't
understand people not being a seal
dependent means to stabilize and
ligament in your knee and then the last
one was show up shoulder and they were
able to do that non-evasive Lee you know
scope it they were able to scope it like
four different places and they created
you see if I get this right they created
a bigger injury to promote more healing
Jesus yeah so they did like bone scrapes
and stuff like that and went in so they
were able to do it without cutting the
shoulder open Wow what was wrong with
your shoulder bunch of tears there was a
how did I hurt that one that was I got
called in one day and I used to drive my
dirt bike to work
like eight miles of real pristine forest
and a t-bone the deer go geez yeah 55
it's like hitting a brick house I mean
I'm sure you stop yeah there's no give
with that thing and thankfully I've
could I've been to riding schools like
even the Gary cynic motocross school so
I was up high and elbows up high so I
flew like Superman I didn't get all tied
up like but I mean I sailed for 20 20
yards Jesus Christ in the air 60 feet oh
yeah yeah yeah Oh came down and hit
directly flat and then slid and hit a
tree so I knew the shoulder was jacked
up but that one I had all kind of knee
injuries from that one like I had this
one thing called a adhesion so I went I
was able to make it to work and they
checked out my shoulder I said yeah
you're jacked up we'll put you get your
MRI tomorrow Hama Hama that night I go
home and I wake up to go take a piss and
uh I realize I've got this massive like
bubble on my side massive and I thought
man I might have internal bleeding just
thing was gigantic was what I mean you
know right on top of my pelvis so I just
I set my alarm clock for like every 10
minutes just to see if she's still with
it and then went in the next day and
they sucked out a couple thousand
milliliters of bloody by-product because
it was the skin separating from the bone
so I think that's what they call it an
adhesion oh so a bunch of blood fills
the gap yeah I was all of us orange 25
product crap nice yeah I've had some
weird
I'm sure injuries but but you're pieced
back together again I can tell you know
you do a lot of crazy working out with
like I've seen a lot of shit you do with
like cinder blocks that were you make do
with what's around you well that so my
work temp was pretty it's off the charts
last year in the year before I traveled
to a different state every week and most
of them were jet-setting so lugging all
my shit to the airport every week all my
guns and this is for tactical training
right so is this is this for private
individuals military training how it's
all on the most most of my courses are
open enrollment so I have all walks of
life I mean the demographic is extremely
wide and so is the skill set disparity
mm-hmm of these guys who come you know
out of 14 guys who sign up for them
would be cops three military the rest
civilians and in that civilian group I
mean they're from you know you got
computer programmers you got surgeons
you got lawyers you got you know strip
club owners and I mean the demographic
is pretty eclectic it's pretty wide
mm-hmm and when I go to these places
instead I used to like go to a la
fitness or something you know I'm gonna
have a fitness after work but I got
tired of that you know just walking
through trying to navigate my way
through a endless maze of bench presses
watching guys do concentration curls in
the in the mirror so I started a range
workouts where I'll plan it during the
day and it became a thing where like fit
guys in the class are watching me I go
in hey bro what's the workout after
after training uh so then we do with you
on your Instagram yeah when the guys in
the course will say hey can I do the
workout with you after after training
yeah yeah yep so you just find
whatever's laying around tire yep cinder
block yep anything dream you know if I
have a wall I could do a lot with that
let's say it's a 5 6 foot wall mm-hmm
there's a lot you could do with that lot
you could do with just a tree some
cinder blocks you know and then
everyone's small guys will bring like a
90 pound sandbag or a couple of
kettlebells because now it's a thing I
expect it yeah
sir like all right we want to do a pat
Mack workout after range day and you
know kudos to those guys because that
shit that's hard you know when you're
all in the range all day working your
ass off and
specially in a blazing hot Sun and guys
hang out to do a workout with me like
bad kudos to you bro
but one of the cool things about the
Internet is that people find other
people that want to push themselves yep
and they find inspiration through guys
like you and there's you know dozens of
guys like you online that are like fun
to follow and you get you go this guy's
doing it I got to fucking get off my ass
and go do it cuz sometimes people just
need an example they need someone to
look at and go this and it literally can
change the way you live your life
no doesn't see a guy who's doing what
you're doing you like goddamn it he's
fucking intense all the time he's
getting after it look his beard I love
that that's an Eagle Lake Texas probably
three years ago
what's the smoke is that exhaust fumes
or gunshot no the owner I know what that
he was he was smoking um it was a smoker
oh he was making me oh nice yep yep yeah
but those are that's those are hard
workouts man yeah those swings in
between the legs like that that's that's
how you build the the real core strength
if your back and you know your your
whole the whole spinal column yeah keep
it tight and strong you know it's it's
it's funny you get even today I read
reading some comments about whatever it
is there's a lot of stupid people out
there when it comes to like not
understanding the right way to work out
right and I want to tell these guys hey
man two things one is if you do if you
do what you've always done you're gonna
get what you've always got
number two I didn't go home last night
and smoke a bunch of crack and dream his
shit up I mean there's I've I've done a
lot of freaking research a lot of
there's a lot of time and effort you
want into this and they'll say hey man
you're gonna throw your back out doing
that stuff no motherfucker that's that's
building your back yeah you know work in
that transverse plane is what guys
neglect a lot see here here we go I'm
gonna get on this freakin soapbox I
swear to God go ahead go get on the bomb
do a pocket most guys here with most
guys work out they live in a what
call a sagittal istic environment you
know three planes of motion frontal
sagittal transverse so they're in the
sagittal world doing benchpress and
concentration curls out of the three
planes of motion I would say that
transverse is most important
additionally when we work out I would
also argue with confidence that it's the
plane of motion that is most neglected
that transverse plane I like to tell
guys that and the transverse plane lives
life saving and ass-kicking there are
four reasons why we should why we should
exercise this is max opinion okay one
self-preservation longevity good for
your health
stronger longer motion is lotion number
two the ability to save your own life
having that confidence knowing yep I
could pull myself out of that burning
coal or or over that wall or whatever
number three more importantly to me is
being Batman the ability to save
somebody else's life so that's three
reasons the last one kicking somebody's
fucking ass so when I look at workout I
look at those four things right they're
not like cosmetics or anything Cosmetics
is a cool byproducts do you workout
right you're gonna look better you look
better you feel better you're more
confident you're more confident you
perform better because confidence
performance work hand in hand
sure so I mean there's no freaking magic
elixir to it you know it hard and it's
an it's hard yeah people like to see
there was like if you do bench press you
see your chest puff up they see those
results I always tell people if there's
one exercise I would recommend like
people who do jiu-jitsu Turkish getup
right it's the least because last week
it's the least romantic of all workouts
nobody wants to do those goddamn things
go to a go to a gym you could go to a
hundred gyms if you're lucky you find
one person doing Turkish getup yep every
gym will have someone someone somewhere
is doing bench press and someone's doing
curls and lat pulldown machine and all
that normal shit and yeah work it out
it's kind of there
it's it's like an anachronism you know
they're working in a world
like a muscle and fitness world still
mm-hmm and that's fine working in
isolation if that's your job there's
three people who three types of people
who should work out a concentration like
doing a curl or someone you know a
concentration curl a professional
bodybuilder all right that's your Jo be
man at your sport number two you
recovering from surgery and atrophy so
it's physical therapy number three yeah
no fucking idea what you're doing or
you're a model you try and look sex
right - that's right yeah right so they
fall on that same CAG trying to look bro
yeah trying to yeah if you it's it's
just not what you really need to
actually with exercise is something
that's gonna mimic what you would
actually do in real life picking up
things moving them around like farmer
walks yep farmer walk very unglamorous
carry a heavy ass kettlebell in one hand
and just walk around for like a half a
mile and your fucking forum would be
dying your legs would be killing you
your core is gonna be shaking it's
amazing and I like the way you put it to
carry on once you know those one-sided
yeah people don't know that they try to
do with two arms but with two arms it
balances out and then it's really just a
grip and a leg exercise with a little
bit of lats and traps but really what
you want to do is one 100-pounder on one
hand carry that bitch everything else
just kind of balance it out and then
turn around put it on the left-hand hip
what that's great we do um at my gym a
lot of that where we load one side of
the time one of the things I love to
hear is a guy will say man I never see
you doing the same thing
yeah like well I pretty much don't
because I don't want to fall into a rut
of complacent adaptation you know so
even guys who said you uh do you do like
Olli lifts see yeah of course every once
in a while I'll probably do a deadlift a
standard deadlift once every two months
but I'm doing variations of that like a
shovel deadlift or a suitcase you know
deadlifts I suck and a lot like you said
are not glamorous yeah I'll throw those
in a bomb
but you do much cardio here's how it
knocked out cardio is uh I have a
formula with this I have a program
combat stranger I had a book and website
and all this and those your program
something that people could sign up for
oh yeah okay yeah they can buy the
e-book what's the website
Jaime Coppola combat strength training
comm mat and the formula is work in
working anaerobic chunks in circuit to
near metabolic threshold to meet an
aerobic goal and then like 30 35 minutes
so that doesn't include warm-up you know
so you're good whatever it is for me
it's like bag work or something for
warm-up just to make sure everything's
loosey-goosey the older you are the more
you have to warm up man damn don't Jack
yourself up it's called Fitness not
brokenness oh yeah people that's another
thing that people don't like to do
because it's not glamorous and because
the people get lazy they don't want to
do that work out whether the pre-workout
they don't want to do all the skip and
rope and all they'll just switch and
stances and jumping jacks and all that
stuff but you really need to break a
sweat of real sweat before you actually
start lifting weights and then even if
you live weights or do anything like say
if you're gonna do get kettlebells I'll
start off with 35 pounds I'll do
everything nice and light at first yeah
I don't start off heavy nope yep that
well that's all that's all it's a wisdom
yes you know that's one fucked a bunch
exactly challenge awesome yeah yep yeah
chalk that one up to wisdom because you
learn that yeah you know it's okay to
put my big fat ego aside yeah I still
have an ego but I'm not gonna get jacked
up because I want to smoke these guys
and in order to do that I can't be you
know I can't have tweaks in my neck and
right I can there's a there's some a
bunch of guys who do these they do these
workout competitions called train to
hunt and what it's mostly for bowhunters
where they have all these physical
challenges like you do a bunch of stuff
with sandbag
and the idea is to Jack your heart rate
up and then when you have to execute a
shot you got to be in enough physical
condition so you can bring your heart
rate down pretty rapidly and it's all
timed and they're competing love that
yeah I love you that kind of stuff with
tactical yeah I've got an entire youtube
channel dedicated to that son nice oh
yeah they're all very very tough like
shots rifle pistol and prior to that I'm
pushing a truck pulling it climbing a
fast rope running with a sandbag you
know it's like I call it shot impossible
almost you know where that heart rate is
slamming and your throat and now you've
got to go into respiratory pause and
take these 50 50 yard pistol shots mmm
you know I'm doing pistol at 50 yards
and thing ding-ding-ding
but yeah I love that stuff and and
that's where interval training really
comes into play you know learning that
to control that heart rate they're
learning how to breathe the right way
man that shut that shit is badass how
big fan of all that yeah I'm - I've
never done a tactical course I really
want to take some lessons oh there's
like I saw Keanu Reeves doing it for
John when I was like that looks fun yeah
I mean I've shot my guns at the range
before and stuff like that I've hunted
with rifles but with pistols I'd like to
go to some sort of a need you love you'd
love my courses um because I keep them
just one of your things right here oh
yeah yeah yeah that's uh oh dude there's
no growth man that's a lot of rope
that's a hundred feet of fat ass hemp
rope with 270 pounds CMBS at the end of
it and I forget what I do here but
there's the yeah I got my steel at the
end I forget I think I run up
oh yeah there's three cones I see him
now so that the forums and everything
are just smoke jacked yeah there yeah
plus music stuff YouTube if we oh this
is uh yeah this was a Turner burn here
just a simple Turner burn but that rope
crushed my spirits there's
tough tough piece YouTube videos that
I've got one where I'm I fell in love
with the idea I thought you know cause I
do this at the gym where I I grab a
kettlebell and I balance it on end
mm-hmm your balance I down and it's so
55-pound carabao most people can't do
that you know just balance a kettlebell
well I'll walk on a balance beam with
them I don't know stuff like that
phenomenal yeah it's good stuff so I
thought all right next YouTube video I'm
gonna do the 55-pound camera balance
this thing on and shoot strong hand and
then balance and and shoot support head
50-yard fifty arm so I got out of the
race on a balance yeah it's on YouTube
yeah so I got out there and I got all my
stuff ready got my bed in my truck got
my gun laid out I throw that kettlebell
up left hand first and pull the pistol
up and I'm looking at the target and I
am shaking like a dog shitting sands
purrs oh god this was a bad idea
oh my god and shot a clean shot to clean
the first time and then I have to
because I I do this like a west Stroud
type of filming you know west route the
survival man sur les Les Stroud yeah
yeah so where I go and talk to the
camera afterwards I was so happy when it
rang again when it rang ding so I had
this massive smile on my face I dropped
the kettlebell I had to erase it and
come over to the camera girl alright
well that was a pretty good time you
know
there's the time upside down cannibals
are great for shoulder stability yeah
once again something that people don't
work on in the gym stabilization my
balance stabilization proprioception can
aesthetic awareness because it because
it ain't sexy and they're building Peaks
on biceps and you know cutting their abs
so we do a lot of like rubber band work
holding it isometric you know
and watch everything freakin shake just
shaking you know when you put together
these drills and you put together these
programs do you just sit down and map it
all out in your head do you think like
okay how am I gonna emulate the kind of
stress in a like a life-or-death
gunfight your your heart reads jacked
you might have to physically do
something have to run from someone or
climb over something is that how you do
you create yeah you're talking about
like the YouTube stuff where I do this
yeah like physical thing with the shoot
yeah I the first thing I do is I've I
put it on my calendar just so I know
that I'm going to make one and then I'll
start thinking about it what haven't I
done because I have to think also I have
to think about the audience the audience
that follows me on YouTube a lot of my
gun guys so they want they want to know
about the gun that I'm using MMS have to
think about that and then I have to
think all right what challenge can
because I want guys to replicate it I
want them to like put those little notes
on the UT I did this and my time was a
minute and 30 or whatever it was so I
want him to be able to replicate him as
well and wanna make them real with some
real-world application in mind you know
so front-loading a sandbag or getting in
pulling something in and out of a car
and doing that with a bunch of
repetitions you know you when you're
doing deadweight in and out of a car hmm
you know 150 pounds pulling it in
pushing it out pulling it back in
pushing it out that'll smoke every
freaking ounce of your being and it'll
crush your spirits I know it's crazy
right
lieutenant a full-grown woman you'll be
able to pick her up and put her in a car
easy no hard try getting her out right
especially if there's no you know you
gotta think deadweight yeah you know
what if this person is incapacitated
they ain't helping you though is all I'm
just full you know those limbs are
moving everywhere and it is a pain in
the dick yeah you're way better off with
150 pound barbell
oh yeah
waise yeah whatever yeah it's like all
right that just stabilized on your
shoulder pull it out yeah yeah so but I
can have to keep those things in mind
the other thing I want to do is I want
to make him I kind of want to make it
hard enough so not everybody could do it
because I want to do something that my
like industry competitors are not doing
and I've turned this I've started a kind
of a fad about ten years ago where more
guys are doing this now they're putting
like shoots up on interwebs you know
with some physical activity prior to
ordering mm-hmm which yeah good but uh
yeah I'm pretty sure I uh you know I uh
I made it cool okay well the more people
doing it the better right right more
cops to be the better yep yeah it's it's
just such a smart thing to think of if
you're if you really want to train the
way you train and really want to think
about you know like tactical situations
and real world application I mean such a
great way to go about doing it and it
looks exciting and fun I mean I haven't
done it but I'm sure it's good I talked
a lot during like now during my courses
I don't do this stuff you know I'm not
because I have I'll have 60 year old
women in it I'll have guys with
Parkinson's even man come to my course I
have guys real chairs yeah have a guy so
how do you how do you stabilize a guy
when they have Parkinson's that's good
that's so I what I showed this guy a
trick what was his name see if I could
remember his name it doesn't matter but
he was 77 years old and he said well I
could either come to your course and
train or lay on my couch and I was like
something you know there was to that
effect because he'd like to shoot I said
bro anytime but I have to modify the
course to him because he came alone zero
right right so I would sit him on on a
cooler and then I used you know furring
strips are they hold up a target there's
one by twos you know about five foot
long
I had him crisscross those and hold him
and then two v-notch ah and put his
rifle in that v-notch
because he could set up pretty good with
he couldn't get in the prone he can't
stand shoot but sitting pretty good and
you know when when guys like that are
concentrating more you see that shake go
away too
mmm hey that's something we do at my gym
- we train Parkinson's uh Tata box
participations really it's a it's a it's
a national program called Rocksteady
boxing huh they come in three times a
week
where's your gym North Carolina what's
it called so go there sparked expose as
PA are like spar and then TC is it open
- yeah yeah it's open it uh it's it's
very fight centric it's an MMA gym so
everything we do is very like fight
centric with the width of physical work
and the lifting and all that and then we
have programs like there's we got we got
some really good fighters man dude coach
they're I mean they're like legit so we
got really good fighters who do uh you
know one-on-one coaching everything from
Greco to BJJ to Tai box to kickboxing to
standard boxing it's it's an it's a neat
place it's it's small its warehouse it's
very Spartan you know it's not sexy at
all perfect yeah it's my favorite kind
of freaking it's badass and so what do
you do with these parkinson's people so
the Rocksteady boxing folks they have a
program they come in a couple times a
week and they put them through a series
of exercises you know a lot of it's just
walking a straight line holding this and
what you know loading one side and then
once they're all warmed up they all kid
up and you see these guys are rapping
and everything you know they're so
excited to get there and they put their
raps on and and then they have as they
work a series of bag drills you know a
one-two
lateral move the next bag is hooks you
know left and right hooks and there's an
uppercut bag and there's a you know the
double end bag and granted they're not
moving you know they're not moving much
but they're moving and they get there
and they love common there and some of
them work up a sweat you know it's it's
pretty it's pretty amazing seeing them
get off their asses and get to a gym and
I look
I remember you put something out and I
pegged you like a year ago
oh it was on a podcast and you were you
were getting pretty emotional about
somebody not wanting to work out and I
pained you and I said I think I
mentioned that we got fucking
Parkinson's people coming to my gym yeah
well it's just when people make those
excuses it just drives me crazy yeah cuz
I've seen examples I've been very
fortunate that I have good health but
I've seen many examples and I've also
been very fortunate that I never got out
of shape I just kept working out my
whole life but I've seen people that are
fat as fuck 350 pounds just barely can
get out get a well round and then they
decide I'm gonna take control my fucking
health and then they just just do it
they just do it and even if you just got
a walk around the block even if you walk
up flights of stairs even if you just do
a push-up even if you do uh sit up just
do something man do some body weight
squats do something it can be done yep
it you know the journey of a thousand
miles starts with a single step
and and I'll have guys I in my community
who would say who will say yeah man up
all your stuff I'm show out of shape and
I don't have the time to snatch which is
another excuse there's no such things I
don't have the time get up an hour early
now you have all the time in the world
you get an hour workout I'll fuck you up
in an hour right you come work out with
me for one hour I will have you crying
by the end of an hour that's plenty of
time from warmup to cool down one hour
we have done yep yeah if you're if
you're what man and you man there's my
friend I don't need more than that
Keith Webber he has this extreme
kettlebell cardio DVD it's it's
available as a digital download though
that I can't even do 40 minutes of this
motherfuckers
work out with a 145 pound kettlebell 40
minutes in my legs are shaking my arms
are shaking I'm walking like like I blew
both my fucking ankles out for the next
couple of days
it's ruthless you can get a lot done in
40 minutes
yeah and there is this is a Sabbath
right not yeah yeah that guy's not
shredded at all that's a crazy shit - he
brings a accountable that's all on the
beach he just brings bells on the beach
and just fucking gets after and you just
follow along with them
nice it's a great workout - because
you're you're doing what he's doing so
you know it's possible he's doing it
right in front of your face right right
yeah you know when it comes to I'll tell
guys come to my gym once just once
because all I need to do is bait the
hook yeah get you feeling good yeah yeah
and and I and they say well I'm afraid
you're gonna smoke ass and nope cuz I
run uh whether it's shooting or physical
stuff I run I call performance based
training good you know I got this it's
recognizes that we all perform
differently and performance as measured
by doing what we can with what we have
right blah so it gives them permission
to work within their capability level
not mine you don't need to replicate
what I'm doing bro I'm we're gonna do
these same movements but I'm gonna I'm
gonna scale this to you to your needs
you know and alright and and the other
thing is I I don't want you to be
incapacitated I don't want you to work
out so hard that that you're not able to
move for the next three days right I
have another rule is that you could work
out as hard as you want in the gym but
when you walk out that door that says
exit you got to be ready to kick
somebody's ass I mean I don't like to
work out to the point of being
incapacity right right so there's a
balancing act there and I've figured it
out fuck that up many times oh man yeah
no yeah I think that's why I figured it
out because too many times
I am for a whole weekend going home my
god
yeah my frickin ass my thighs my how do
you do for recovery do you fuck around
with cryotherapy or sauna
nothing do nothing really no I know
nothing
how come I I don't know because I
haven't really like needed it yeah
you should just get a song on you Jim
yep just that alone get a song in a
fucking ice bath yeah I drink I think I
drink beer for recovery that's that's a
nightly ritual well I will not be able
to function if I don't how many it is Oh
usually about four but they're like good
quality pints you know I'm not like
chugalug in NASCAR soda by the case
barley pops but like good quality uh
IPA stouts Porter's you know that kind
of thing you just live for it
yeah I love it I'm a hobbyist man right
and my hobbies that or bourbon so I that
doesn't seem to go hand in hand a lot of
people's eyes I know freaking kidding me
it's like hey man I have a policy my
wife having and I have a policy every
night is Saturday night but every
morning is Monday morning Wow I like it
yeah so we go out almost every night we
go out just because if I'm at home I'm
gonna work mm-hmm I'm gonna work until I
fall asleep so you know that clock hits
6:00 7:00 at night like all right let me
go meet my wife she's getting off work
we're gonna go have a couple pints have
a big old bourbon or something like that
and uh yep I smoke cigars dip thing is
well that's numbing diet it's all about
diet mm-hmm I mean my diets ridiculous
we predominantly when I'm meal prep its
collard greens spinach bell pepper and
chicken that's it and then spice it up
with you know salt pepper so don't look
prep for the week you make but it
doesn't I don't have a pot big enough to
prep for the week so I prep for like two
three days at a whack and just chow down
and that's the other thing diet man you
know there's
dude what's the secret and diet eat food
in food doesn't come in a bag or a box
that's a product right shop at the
periphery of a grocery store if you go
into the guts all your going in there is
for coffee olive oil salt mmm that's it
yeah that's a good way of looking at
that you say right stay on the outside
that's where the meat and vegetables are
yep beware of the inside just beware if
you're going in there go with a purpose
you know don't get sucked in because
that and then the older you get the less
you could prop the but your body can't
process that crap right so diet for me
get up in the morning it's habitual full
quart of water since I wake up full full
quart of water first thing our slam just
don't even don't even set it down and
then why is that what's the thought
process behind I'm getting that down I'm
getting it in no waste in time it's
there for a reason I want to because you
wake up dehydrated I just want a power
slam that and get it all into me and
then you know a clean I eat a clean
breakfast like a couple boiled eggs and
some bacon mmm and then throughout the
day and people say well is there a
certain amount just too many people
follow too many like diets which good
for them if you're following a diet
kudos but like meal times and how many
times a day I eat when I'm hungry and I
don't eat too I'm full
it's it's pretty freakin simple you
don't eat till you're full right back
off right you haven't what do you like
70% about that yeah and then but poor a
portion of that is thinking well what if
I got a sprint 400 yards you know or
what if I got to kick somebody's ass
right now right now and if I'm a hundred
percent I mean it's gonna be shooting
out of both ends so I die is freaking
huge man--huge but it allows me to drink
those beers at night you know it allows
me to do stuff like that and then make
sure I'm hitting it every day the
you know the gym evil days I usually
don't have time for seven days and I
even if I did I probably wouldn't I'd
probably take at least one day off maybe
two but you know as well as I do that
you are more in tuned when you get older
to what your body's telling your brain
your body when you get older says you
know what back to fuck off today you
don't need a shit and I listen to that
man I do listen that too
that's so important to listen to that
there's those days where I might manage
to feel a little off today I'm like am I
being a pussy I don't think so Yeah
right I'm feeling off and then all
sudden I'll start my nose will start
running I'll start coughing oh boo right
yeah around me a second my god lucky I
listened yep and then that cold to be
gone a day or two yep versus if I just
go run the hill right yeah I'm good to
go sweat it out that shit is not real no
people say sweat it out that is unless
you're getting in a steam room or a
sauna ain't sweating out shit you're
you're twisting your body up and you're
probably gonna make your immune system
even weaker yep when you were talking
about those Parkinson's folks when they
come into your gym when they do that do
they experience any benefit in terms of
their function does it help them
absolutely absolutely and some more than
others depends I think it depends on how
you know what's would stage they're in
how long they've been there but
absolutely we've got one guy who used to
be a bow hunter and he can't anymore
so we got him replicating that motion
with rubber bands and you know he could
barely do a small wand initially he gave
it up because he thought you know what
it's not working for me so he kind of
gave up but once we started to work in
the rubber bands he started seeing you
know results this is a seven year old
man with Parkinson's he's like crap man
I'm gonna be able to drop my bow again
because I'm doing these exercises you
know and yeah absolutely
with a lot of guys especially with their
their balanced lateral movement that's
one that I see a lot you know in the
lateral movement
they're making big improvements with
lateral movement and yeah what helps it
is weight training help them like what I
think it's it's just getting getting
that body moving you know and then with
the with the boxing it's that hand and
eye coordination to you know vision
being visually acute you know to the
spot that you're supposed to hit on that
bag you know every time so it's a
combination of the because the weights
are very very minimal you know we don't
want these guys to get jacked up and and
the gal who runs it Laura's pretty she's
pretty cognizant of that you know about
not wanting them to get jacked up so
their loads are very light when they do
any kind of weight training but I'd
always wonder because it is a
neurological disorder yeah but uh you
know what they benefit from it because
they're getting out of the fucking house
out of the hospital get into a gym to
wrap it up they're motivated you know
they're fired up to be there and you
know they're not they're not it's
obvious that they have Parkinsons you
know they're not you know running around
the ring like Roy Jones rather but
they're they're fired up to be there and
it's giving them purpose yeah yeah
people need purpose you know yeah
speaking of yet when you retired from
the military was this some did you
envision yourself doing something along
these lines like teach and tactical
style for oh man I went through some
rough patches as most guys do right yeah
man man it was whoo no I I morphed into
Who I am only in like the past six or
seven years I retired no five I got
hired before I even retired by a
corporation to do training stuff and I
kind of fell I was almost falling into
that rut of accepting mediocrity Plus
what I didn't know is that uh I had
depression I didn't know that I just no
idea it which is common
especially in like the SpecOps world you
guys retire because you been there in in
in units with guys with the same guys
for a long long time and you've there's
a level of intimacy there that can't be
replicated with another human being and
then when you retire you miss that
camaraderie that connection so I had
working for a corporation I was a had a
really bad relationship I was living in
the bonus room of my garage I'd lived
there for five years
mmm cuz I had ex who was a on chemistry
you know prescription meds go Big Pharma
and so the neuroreceptors were freakin
gone I mean delusional and and it was it
was real bad and then I started boozing
with depression mmm and I it didn't even
occur to me that dude you got a fucking
problem man didn't even occur I guess
which is common with a lot of guys but I
had an epiphany a lot of things happened
at one time my local cop saved my life
they said bro you need to get the fuck
out of there and a bunch of things
happened all at once this was in 2013 I
didn't want to leave because I had
little kids and so I didn't want to I
was I was gonna stay there and just
wither wither away I mean I almost
capitulated you know to darkness but I
got up with her before I went to sleep
one night well my kid is sleeping with
me and I'm hammered and it's like 8:00
at night you know and uh and I had an
epiphany I said you know what I can't I
can't do this and I will not I remember
saying to myself I won't I will not be
defeated I will not be defeated and I
put my running shoes by the side of my
bed and some shorts set my alarm clock
got up early next morning and went for a
run a la Forrest Gump
and I pound the pavement for about ten
or twelve miles and I'm not a runner you
know I like to run I like to sprint and
when I came back from the run worked out
in my driver for about an hour and my
local cops came all happened the same
time and they came and said hey bro get
the fuck out kids be alright you need to
do this and that and then I started kind
of figuring out a Rhea Rhea valuating my
path in life Oh back up a step I also
got laid off from this corporation and
you know with a guy in the military you
don't you don't ever think about job
security and when I retired I'm working
for a corporation that was mostly were
taught made up of retired military guys
so you get laid off you like what the
fuck can I get to do now what does that
even mean getting laid off I don't what
am I gonna do
so all that shit happen at the same time
I was like a it was like a this massive
spiral of bad events and uh man I was
able to I was able to rekindle my own my
own my own fire because I recognized all
right bro you still got an ember you
still got this all you need to do is
just nurture that Amber turn it into a
flame turn that into a flame and then
just start adding would add would add
wood until it becomes just a perpetual
blaze and which led me to this thing
that I tell people now you know is that
you got to keep the blaze alive
um I've got that on t-shirts even
because I like I like to kick people in
the ass who are willing to sustain their
own fire once they get that ass-kicking
if they can't if they can't keep their
fire going then it's not worth it's not
worth it for me you know to keep kicking
them in the ass but uh
yeah so ever since uh that point in time
you know getting laid off the depression
the booze and I was able to rediscover
me and rebrand and and pretty much start
from scratch I mean I had to start Life
all over again when I was 48 years old
Wow
yep the whole thing from scratch and I
discovered like social media and all
this stuff because I've met a gal and
I'm married to her now and she's
probably the best purse one of the best
human beings I've ever met you know
all-around human being so she was able
to help me with that and said hey you
need to do this you need to get this
social media platform or that one and
so it's it's it's detonated pretty well
considering I bet on a short amount of
time but apparently the message is
resonating yeah so it's a genuine
message that's why I picked up on it all
right on yeah no but I love that you
figured your shit out I love that it's
my favorite thing when when I mean look
everybody's prone to mistakes and prone
to depression and people are prone to
hitting rock bottom yep your life can go
down a series of bad roads and you find
yourself in a bad relationship or a bad
job a bad situation in life and it's
very very difficult at that moment to
have faith and confidence that you can
readjust reconsider and and re-engage
and that's what you did that's awesome I
love that I love those kind of stories a
lot of them people get their shit
together and and I think that that helps
me help other people yeah for sure
you know cuz I could I could relate yeah
and I don't you know I don't sit down
with them and and pat him on the
shoulder and say hey bro you know I was
there too or anything like that
I don't even share with them but I
empathize and that sometimes that's all
it takes
mm-hmm any empathize and um and you just
give them just give just just that just
a little bit of the right advice just a
little bit you know
too much well oftentimes people just
need momentum they need one good day
you need one today that's why I said to
that one guy just come to the gym one
day yeah if you like one good day we eat
clean you drink a lot of water and you
like you did you got that day you woke
up you put your shoes on you went for a
run you worked out your driveway you've
got a good day yeah that's sometimes all
you need to do and decide this is what I
do from now on I have good days yeah
tomorrow's gonna be another good day and
then I'm gonna force myself into another
good day and the next thing you know
I've got some momentum right you got
some momentum you could change
everything
yeah I've felt many times in my life
I've felt like I could slip the wrong
way and I just I see it I see the dark
hole and I go fuck that and just go the
other two would go the other way
the problem isn't people fall into that
dark hole they think that that defines
them but it doesn't right it doesn't
define you it's just you right now you
could be totally different tomorrow
you're a human being you can think you
can adjust and there's so much
inspiration it's one of the beautiful
things about your Instagram page and
many many other Instagram pages is that
you can take if you curate your feed
correctly and you don't follow a bunch
of knuckleheads you can go to your
Instagram or to whatever social media
platform you like and you can go and
check out a lot of cool shit oh man you
feel good about it you get fired up and
you want to do good with your life yep I
am
I love being inspired by other guys that
I follow on social media maybe I'm a
motivator but I like to be motivated too
yeah me too
so I love I've met a lot of really cool
people on on those platforms you know
like sitting across from you for example
and it's not a it's not a because too
many guys especially like my age are
afraid of it you know their friend yeah
say hey bro you don't have to you know
you don't have to go crazy on it but you
should you know at least check this out
and check that out you don't have to
follow thousands of things people say
like emojis right what am I doing here
50 years old
but you're right too about we are we are
human beings and we are allowed to air
yeah and as a matter of fact in most
cases it is a biological requirement for
us to force a jack shit up yeah I
thought what we do all we needed to make
sure is that it doesn't become a
recurring theme that we learn from the
past prepare for the future perform and
live in the present yeah expand this
we've been we've been blessed with a
very very short existence on on this the
planet that amazes me that it can you
know nurture and sustain frickin life in
a solar system that can do the same and
I like to feel insignificant and small
like looking up at the stars through a
telescope it's like damn man I'm pretty
good nothing I am nothing you like it's
easy enough I can see the Andromeda
galaxy yeah through my telescope and
that's the closest one that we can see
and there's billions of stars in that
galaxy and guess what there are billions
of galaxies just like that yeah I mean I
am I'm so freakin ignition
on this planet with these other several
billion people because I mean just the
fact that I am a human being you know
that our strands of DNA wrapped in
protein and thrown in with some you know
with some amino acids it's mind-blowing
that that um you know they're a thing
yeah ya know I feel the same way all the
time I it's so easy to get wrapped up in
your own day-to-day existence and weird
little dumb things and you you if
there's only little dumb things in your
life to those dumb things become huge
when you have big things in your life
it's easy to look at those dumb things
in brush moth when you're really working
hard at something and you have a lot of
positive positive things going on in
your life then then it's easier like
what's one of the good things about
really hard exercise is it's very
difficult to do so when you go to a very
difficult real or real difficult
physical struggle the other little boy
shit seems like nothing it just really
see it gets exposed for what it really
is yeah what it really is it just it
seems like a big deal in the moment in
the time but that's just a trap because
your body needs something to think about
your body's always worrying your brain
is always focusing on danger you worry
about threats and predators yeah and if
there's no predators then it's fucking
microaggressions then it's you know it's
this guy looked at me funny at the
office it's like this bitch is always
parking in the spot I want you know like
people get weird you get you start
focusing on nonsense under my new shit
yeah but I thinks I think that's one of
the primary benefits of physical
exercise is not just that it blows out
all that excess energy that I think your
body stores up and I always the way I
was described as at a person's body's
almost like a battery that's leaking
energy like you got to purge it you
gotta purge it of that excess energy
because it has certain physical
requirements then on top of that the
physical difficulty of you know running
a hard you know two to three miles in
the mountains or wherever you're at or
doing like you know crazy CrossFit
workout or whatever the fuck you like to
do taking a jiu-jitsu class that shit is
so hard that all that other nonsense in
your life gets it puts into perspective
then from there then look up then look
up at the whole stars and go man you're
just lucky to be experiencing this right
to be able to think about this to be
this person that's living in the most
amazing time ever for human beings may
be spinning around on this ball flying
through infinity it's nothing but gravy
it provides you with with great with
like centering balance you know yeah and
yeah and man what else you said
something that did you know we talked
about that people focusing on the
minutia oh shit you were saying how it's
just it's a sticking point with me it's
all is um how you know we human beings
primal our primal thought we worry about
ya know dangers and stuff like that but
man it's amazing how how many people
nowadays have relinquished that pride
they're their primal defense mechanism
you know of like awareness said hmm
mobility all that they've like just give
up their fat dumb lazy happy button put
pushers flaccid and complacent yeah just
walking around a forty five-degree
syndrome yeah I'm on that bus today
going just to go to the rental car place
from LAX and everybody's on the phone
which you know there's times you could
be in the white but I look around I go
well it looks like I'm on security right
now you know gonna see this or that
happened yeah there's a ton of people
that are just staring at their phone all
day long and not paying attention to
their surroundings at all it's not that
you need to all the time most of the
time you don't but the time when you do
boy that could change your life or the
life of your loved ones yeah
yeah and and mmin around the streets is
not the time to do it you know there's a
time to be in the white and you know
when you know I'm talking about with the
white like Cooper's color code white to
black white is like zombie mode and
that's you know me and my house and my
range of panties watching TV or whatever
right you know that's the time when your
zombie and Opie I'd blow it loud to be
in the white where black is you know
you're fighting for your life right now
it's horrible horrific terrifying but um
you know in the streets gotta be at
least in the yellow yeah you know just
have your wits about you a little bit so
let me take you back to when you decided
to get your shit together again you
decide to get your shit together again
you begin the process yep and then how
did you get to where you're at now well
I am getting laid off was scary as hell
but sometime you know when you're in
crisis mode like that you you think most
efficiently there's a there's a there's
a there's a series of things that happen
one is you know you get scared to death
right laid off scared I think that was
the first one scared and then angry and
this is over a couple days you know and
then focus when I got focused I built my
company Tmax I mean I just thought of
everything you know I just had one
epiphany after us what am I going to
call it you know Harlan let me just make
up an acronym that sounds cool and it
cover all the bases training
marksmanship adventure concept security
I covered everything team axe and then
and then man should just admit I was so
frickin fortune because shit fell into
place for me I had guys who were who I
trained for this corporation called the
corporation and say hey we want uh you
know Pat Mac to come train us again and
they said well he's no longer here
but we can have somebody else do it they
were like no we don't want somebody else
you know we want we don't care what it's
called or what you're branding it we
want this guy doing it so they were able
to get in contact with me it was a big
contract and then another one came up
and then another one all in the same
year his all tactical training yeah and
it was all so that year was complete and
then I had a bunch of different you know
lessons learned like government
contracts shit like sequestration
remember at 2013 with anyway
sequestration so government contracting
and stuff like that it all went away you
know there was a time and thirteen where
I didn't worked for six months you know
it's scary when you're working on your
when you're doing everything for and by
yourself all your own admin or if you're
thinking like that it could be it's very
exciting but scary shit yeah yeah it's
like damn and you know I keep Jay I
don't care how much stuff and I having
to pipe on my key jam and more shit yeah
yeah no but once uh so I had those
government contracts then I just I just
built momentum and then started learning
alright let's get rid of this let's do
more of this let's not do focus on that
let's focus on this and it grew it grew
into a into a very
it's like self-fulfilling machine you
know it's a it's it's it's it's run and
running very well right now but it was
not easy getting there I mean there was
a lot of bumps and obstacles of the road
but I tell guys at all time man any any
any road worth traveling you're probably
gonna have obstacles in it there's gonna
be temptation like shortcuts you know
nope stay on that road bro stay on that
road go through those potholes go over
those freakin bumps this road it's gonna
suck but after a while it'll smooth out
and sure enough you know my road
smoothed out and the bumps are few and
far between right now so yeah man I'm
I'm the happiest I've ever been in my
life probably right now
you know 54 years old and it's like I've
grown up but that's smart
I mean that's if you're a person who's
thinking and trying to do better with
your life you should be at your best
right now yep should be at your best at
how you perceive things how you decide
to approach things how you look at
things so when you're doing these these
tactical courses and you're traveling so
much that that's very hard on your Bible
that's probably one of the hardest
things on your body all right all that
travel
yeah it'll especially so you know I
travel with two big cases because I have
a gun case in a gear case and you become
a travel pro but it still sucks yeah you
get up early drive an hour to the
airport wait an hour to get your plane
take that plane to this place and then
you know another plane to this place get
in your rental car go to travel with the
guns - right yeah well only because it's
different in every Airport yeah it's
Alaska than used to guns like yeah yeah
I'll ask a lying places yep but it's
different in every Airport so there's no
consistency even though you know I know
what the webpage says I know what it
says right and I don't they don't know
what else I've no idea is that we travel
with my bow I find that lax right
depending upon who I talk to like some
people I go yeah it's a bow what are you
doing now my bow hunt they go okay all
right it's fine other people like I
don't think you can travel with this one
I definitely can get you manager right
let's go to the website Jesus Christ and
you know give myself an extra hour just
in case shit like that half and I do
that I definitely I give that I I plan
for that extra hour just in case I got a
piss and moan right but some of them are
real smooth you know airports are real
smooth others a pain in the deck but
people must look at you weird right yeah
a little bit I mean they know me at my
airport but they're also North Carolina
right it's a different animal
when you bring something like that to
California people like California is not
it's not this horrible Second Amendment
heaven yeah but it's not as horrible
what's the word York oh yeah yeah that
you see I like New Jersey New York
Connecticut yeah states like that oh
Jesus freaky yea they have very strange
gun laws there this is just because
they've got so much violence they
thought that that was the solution yeah
yeah yeah I don't know I don't know so
do you what do you enjoy the most do you
enjoy doing the social media stuff do
you enjoy doing the tactical training
like what do you enjoy doing the most um
I like doing I like doing the workout
stuff more than anything because I think
with that I reach and help more people
even if they could be it's a maze it's
amazing it's it's like you know I have
somebody I don't know how this has
happened but I bet I have morphed into
this guy who people rely on to motivate
them and they tell me bro you're you're
motivate in the hell out of me which
fires me up is my buddy CJ says what
motivates a motivator tell them your
motivating them you know so so I love
doing that stuff because it touches a
lot of people regardless of their age or
their physical ability and a lot of guys
maybe you know bedridden with an illness
or something like that
it'll fire them up so I like doing that
stuff I think next would be the shooting
thing I mean I love it I love her any
courses and meet new people I meet a
dozen new people every week and from all
walks of life and got all different
reasons motivations for doing it yep and
and guys you know they'll ask me during
the classes said they say bro how do you
stay motivated to do these and almost
every week and I say cuz I get to meet
guys like you bro I mean it's as simple
as that
yeah if you find enthusiastic people you
catch and then that helps a lot yep so
you know I like to fire people up but I
like to get it in return do you find a
lot of guys that are also retiring from
the military they want to talk to you
about this because they're trying to
figure out their path a couple of them
have hit me up and I am man open arms
like let me show you whatever you want
to know because I've figured this out so
yep I'm your huckleberry it's not many
of them but they're bad they'll be you
know half dozen a year who will ping me
hey I want to get into the training in
history right like it's plenty of room
for it every guy that I know that's
either been SpecOps seal whatever
they've been when they retire it's one
of the hardest moments of their life
yeah it's so hard for them to find some
purpose and there's it's hard for them
to find roots to just to really feel
like they belong again because that life
is so intense yeah because you have you
know you have meaning yeah I know and
it's in it's in it's selfless you're
doing something bigger than yourself
yeah
and so yeah because you want once again
if you're just in a if you just find it
let's say a Jo be where you're working
and maybe even working for the man
there's no more there's no meaning there
we're not do you're not a part of
something bigger than yourself right so
I always tell guys hey when whenever you
get out when you've you separate
especially if you've got you know
20-plus years and that's a long time you
are going to be adversely affected no
matter how badass you are
upstairs you're going to be rest some
degree yeah you know it could be a
little depressed it could be a lot but
if you find something and it could be
working for a charity you know whatever
if you find something that where you
could with impunity go to sleep and look
forward to the next day where you say
man tomorrow's gonna be freakin awesome
I can't wait because I got this project
pending and I'm gonna help so many
people be better people then if you
could do that I mean fine that instead
of just you know getting stuck in a rut
you know instead of accepting mediocrity
yeah but because that meaning but
purposefulness and and and selfless
being doing something selfless and being
a part of something bigger than yourself
is freaking huge do they prepare you at
all when you're getting ready to retire
they say good luck yep sayonara they
just figure you're a badass and figure
it wow you're making the choice cuz you
know I could have stayed in another 10
years or what-have-you
so you're doing it you're making that
choice why did you decide to leave there
was a you know kind of a defining moment
I had to do some soul-searching
it was all I had 22 years in I lost the
couple buds at that moment and I had two
little kitties out so I had to do some
soul-searching and I thought well will
there be will there be will there be any
regret whatsoever and I thought man I
pretty much I've done at all you know
his followers like Special Ops goes I I
am NOT gonna have any grits cuz I did
that was a big thing you know will I
regret this and I said to myself no I
won't so you know I I decided to retire
with 22 in and it was all special I was
very fortunate my whole career was
special ops the whole thing um
but I did regret it after I'm sure
didn't take long it was you know and it
got worse every year that pass they got
worse and worse as like man I should
just well it's got to be so hard even
for not just for you but for I mean not
just for the soldiers but for the wives
yeah like to know that the husband is
constantly in these crazy situations
overseas constantly in these very very
dangerous environments yep the stress of
that yeah I I think it takes a special
kind I'm both sides you know and usually
usually spouses have a pretty good
support mechanism to with the units and
other spouses and that kind of thing
right so yeah usually they're pretty
they're pretty tough they get used to it
yeah it becomes a way of life and it
becomes a normal right yep
oh yeah still miss it I'm sure yeah well
everyone I talked to does you know have
you ever read um
Sebastian youngers book tribe oh yeah
yeah
I just just recently I didn't I I
listened to it oh yeah yeah freaking
badass yeah I loved it
yeah he's great reading it too it's a
it's an excellent book yep and it
doesn't explain in your eyes I thought
he did a pretty good job with that whole
thing yep yep absolutely
yeah I thought he was pretty much
spot-on
I was north and south in my head as I
was driving down i-95 listening to that
book so it's safe to say that you went
through this period
post-military where you just were really
just trying to find yourself again but
then you caught it yeah and then you
caught it and now you seem like you're
in your glory
oh hell yeah like I said I really enjoy
your page man alright relax yeah it's
tense yeah your oh it's and you're also
kind of you're a badass but you're fun
with it yeah alright good time yeah you
know yeah I love doing it I love the
both the doing the the YouTube channel
and p.m. IG mm-hmm and I put thought you
know I
I put some thought into it and you might
helped you with this stuff yeah she
helped me set stuff up I don't know
right here this stuff was so we got
married we met in 30 like fall of 13 and
then the first social media platform I
had was Facebook because somebody's
posing as me oh that's a lady so in
order to report them I needed to get an
account and then once I did I friend
requested this guy who's post and posing
as me in anyway what what I say why was
he doing it I figured it out I did some
detective work but he was posing as me
because he wanted to bash somebody else
in the gun industry and pose as somebody
credible so this guy that he was bashing
contacted me and said hey why are you
saying this and I don't talk shit body
right so like well I think you got the
wrong guy and I said just call me up
here's my hilarious yeah and we had a
chitchat and he goes oh man I got some
bad news for you you do have a Facebook
account sent me a link and everything
yeah but um so I started that lon I
already had a couple YouTube videos up
mmm
but then um I just went full bore with
it you know went went kind of batshit
and then the IG was fun man when Rebecca
my wife showed me that I was probably I
think I think five five years into that
and I figured it out you know what my
audience wants you know I pay attention
to you know that the analytics mm-hmm
really yeah yeah only because um yeah
because I want to write yeah because I
want to give them what they want versus
blue what do you get out of the
analytics what does it job the the the
age group the time of day you know those
kind of things but also the amount of
views and what's the other work the not
views but um
the reach
so you know what's the it's the videos
do the best and if they're short it's
like I do a lot of around the combat
strength training so I supplement my
ebook with little workout snippets hey
this is another example of a power thing
blah blah blah so I'm putting
information in there as well
you know I jot down info so make sure
you working transfers plain Hama Hama
you know Raider force production no
speed no power blah blah blah and this
could be supplemented with a resistance
band instead of a weight mm-hmm so I pay
attention to that stuff because that's
what people want that's where I get the
most feedback guys like growth thank you
so much for putting the sound like
alright man so um hell you know I know
for a fact that I'm helping people or if
I put a maybe of course the fire out or
talk about specific way to clean up and
break down in 1911 mhm you know whatever
it's when I put out information it
resonates better and it seems that it's
more palatable with the with the with
the masses of the people who have
following me because I get a lot and may
I answer all those frickin comments do
you really a lot of them I mean I spend
how many followers you have on I G a
hundred sixty K how the fuck can you
possibly answer all those things a lot
of them are just but you know hitting
the like right and sometime that means a
lot to people man it all up guys
screenshot and Pat Mac just liked my
comment you know but uh it's a couple
hours I'll spend I think two hours a day
is what I do on the associate like email
mm-hmm then I could get to work you know
I don't have to fuck with that anymore
but you it's usually about that much
well your page makes me want to take a
tactical course
yeah only wanted to do that where would
they go they go to my website Tmax
ink.com you ever you anyone ever out
here in LA yeah I used to come out here
all the time
the only reason and it's not the gun
thing just I'm getting travel-weary man
I'm three-hour times don't smoke
yeah never go to Australia no I've been
invited to do courses there but there's
a whole new another thing with training
overseas it's you know it's a state
department the same thing in high tar
sand all that it's a pain in the dick
I'm sure so I I'm not trying to blow
these guys along here it is take a live
CST course
oh yeah the CST cool I don't do him live
much anymore only because they they
didn't they didn't sell in Phil will
because people would I think they
thought that it was gonna be a beatdown
oh you're gonna go and kick the race but
it's it's very it's a lot of information
and a lot of feel and stuff out right
you know so what is it what is a CST
course what does that mean well it's
basically replicating what I have in
that ebook and people say bro put this
book in hardcover it's 35 pages man it's
not cost productive you know right yeah
just download it and print it out would
you oh my god what is the CSCS t course
would replicate what i have in that book
within a day's period okay so it's a
good supplement for those who have the
book because I do all the classrooms the
whiteboard stuff you know you break the
workweek down power day strength right
speed and quickness hypertrophy skills
and then I'll talk about you know
eccentric concentric isometric transfers
sagittal mm-hmm we're gonna learn all
this stuff got NASM you know National
Academy of Sports Medicine cuz I wanted
to you know it's freaking piece of paper
to me six months to get but um I wanted
to I wanted to have a piece of paper to
write yes and that was the closest thing
that I found to what I was putting out
and it it was pretty spot-on
only mine's way cooler you know it's not
like the lame you know health club
versus got it right more tactical
impractical right yep yeah yep
so the class would it basically just
encompass
what's in the book in a one-day period
and now it's more like tangible because
see people aren't touching and feeling
and seeing it you know these certain
exercises first is seeing a picture of
it right but there's a lot of good
information in that in that book and
then I supplement both my youtube
channel and IG with all these other
little snippets and there's hot man I
put out a lot of information I mean a
lot so people won't get bored because I
don't want people get bored with the
workout you know I want him to I'll do
it it's teaching him how to cook and
then showing them ingredients and now go
cook your own meal and you know here's
some other recipes throw these throw
these ingredients into your into your
pot so that's what I do with the social
media platform is ice supplement that
with you know whatever I'll come up with
some dumbass name for some movement that
I'm doing II but they're good functional
safe low-impact movements that encourage
you know that self-preservation
longevity and fitness and not brokenness
too many oh my god too many guys
especially older guys you know doing
herky-jerky stuff and and getting hurt
in the gym especially when they take a
long time off and you forget that their
body's 56 not 26 yeah super common yeah
so when you if people go to your is is a
combat strength training calm so what's
called for the CST but that's not for my
courses that's right I'm like tactical
stuff is T back sink okay is there a
link to that from there yeah team X is
my that's who I am
so T Mac sink and then from there
there's all of the server performance
yeah you handsome bastard yeah man so
this is all like it's got a lot of your
videos up there it shows you what you're
doing yup and it's got all the courses
and it's kind of badass store - man whoo
I got some booty on that store so Oh
tools Oh get you some so when you're
when you're putting all these different
workouts together how much
how much do they change do the like when
you if someone goes to your website and
wants to follow your course right the
physical stuff yeah oh the the the core
workout doesn't change that much the
movements do so I break the workweek
down into a pouch like Monday for
instance power day then strength day
speed and quickness hypertrophy skills
and then there's a couple because people
don't have five days you could lump for
instance speed and power you can lump
strengthen hypertrophy
the so that the gist stays the same
power day work in you know anaerobic
chunks in circuits and here metabolic
special to meet anaerobic go picky five
good power exercises make sure that two
of them are transverse plane and if they
got the book they be able to that which
could sustain him for just with that for
let's say I don't know whatever months
without getting bored but they
definitely want to go to like some of
the stuff on that I put on the interwebs
to help sustain and keep the ideas fresh
right because we don't want to fall into
that once again that rut of complacent
adaptation you know we're doing the same
shit over and over and over day by day
and too many guys do that right and it's
it's not healthy
I noticed you incorporate a lot of
martial arts stuff to help you were
doing some arm drags the other day yep
yeah what do you do you just do this for
like practical applications in a street
fight scenario yes so yeah I got a big
fan of different different fight and you
doing all this stuff you do it with
shoes on because are you gonna be in
real life yeah most the time I mean I
don't go into our fight room it's you
because it's got mats and there it's
nice so you know well we will we will we
grapple and work even work bags I'm I'm
barefooted but usually there's a lot of
times I'm working out and these would
have gone on to it's just an appendix
carry under my teeth
so the you keep it unloaded or correct
so you know where it's right because it
impedes your moving a little bit yep
just to make sure that it doesn't impede
my move right but just to know where
it's at right okay so there's a place
where you can keep where you can move
yep just as well yeah and so this dude
that you're working with he's a wrestler
yeah he's good man
Randy's good and what is what is he
working with you on you just we're not
this was this
we're not the sharpest right here cuz
this was after a power workout were
smoked right we're smoked and all we
were doing here is just control just
stand up for control you know and I used
to be a good wrestler but my game is off
and because but that was decades and
decades ago so Randy's getting in he's
training for a a competition and Jitsu
competition I think he's it's a it's a
kind of a mixed wrestling jujitsu
competition I think he's doing the
wrestling I'm pretty sure so I said hey
bro let's uh let's start mixing it up I
want to get back into you know rolling
some more because I'm bigger than here
so it'll be good for him mm-hm because
I'm bigger and stronger than he is so
and then it'll be good for me too I'm
Thomas that I just do a lot of fight
training especially a boxing kickboxing
little tentative on getting punched in
the face anymore yeah I said for your
head the generative spine mm-hmm well
your neck did you generative spine so
degenerative disc disease right you know
this that's very controversial you know
a lot of people say that it's a disease
but then I talked to physiologist and
they say well what it is is pressure on
your discs because you're lifting a lot
of weights or you're involved in
something that presses down on you and
then you dis degenerate it's not like a
disease that's causing us to go away
yeah that that disease air quotes almost
always happens in people that are
evolved with very strenuous physical
exercise yep
and so there's different ways you can
kind of mitigate some of that stuff do
you ever do spinal decompression No
now I haven't done that one man there's
a harness you goodbye all
it's like 39 bucks hang from a door yes
I can you pull that click click click
click and it stretches sometimes just
that alone give you a lot of relief I
know I do have an inversion table and
that's freaking great I have one of
those too yeah those are great and then
there's another machine called a reverse
hyper that's fantastic for your lower
back I'll show it to you outside right
now we have one on the other in the gym
area but dad also actively decompresses
and then strengthens all those muscles
around your back as well but these the
stuff with the neck too there's another
there's a bunch of different things you
could do I mean I don't know if you do
any neck exercises do you do you fuck
with anything oh yeah yeah yeah yeah at
least at least once a week and I've got
a yeah I always told you try to work
your neck manner supports come answer
right right right I have to now you you
said the it's disc degeneration so you
don't want to get choked is that what it
is you don't want to get your neck
manipulated yeah because like my distal
phalanges
there's numbness there okay uh you know
like sleeping I have to sleep like a
corpse there's no rolling or anything
just straight corpse
so the numbness is indicates or
something pressing on your right yeah no
no that decompression device will help
you along I try it it's cheap too like I
said it's like 30 bucks or 39 bucks
something like that but that's that
sucker man I get in that thing a little
bit it feels good just alleviates
tension if you could do that every day
for a few minutes you know that the
inversion table all those things you can
keep all that stuff healthy yeah I and
it feels good I just don't want to get
punched in the face yeah the bunch
replace a lot I hear you man I'm not
into it either assistant the brain is
not designed to get right it was one of
the things that I do like about jujitsu
more than anything is that you can go
hard right and you're not you know
you're not hitting each other it's just
there's a big difference so you can get
a full 100% exertion right exercise
workout in without you know risk of
hurting each other especially if you go
with a good guy yeah and like the guys I
work with our pull man fight is way
better than mine
so they not a train yeah we're not gonna
do not get so important so important you
know cuz I've been I've been doing fight
stuff for a long long time and I've been
fortunate that there's always there was
always somebody better looking out and
say hey let's work this or work you know
just weaken just making those tweaks
yeah that's what's gonna ask you do you
do you do any ground training do you do
any - not enough not enough nope
and and like I said my coaches are
really good but I don't do enough of it
I do I don't have a good I don't have a
good reason and I just said that to him
I just say hey guys I'd have to do more
I've got to do more ground stuff they're
like right on yeah yeah get in there man
yep and it's humbling yeah we'd like to
avoid a do you know I mean we I do it
but not but not enough right yeah I'm
very comfortable on my feet my like my
level of confidence on you know being
able to punch somebody's mouth loose
without them even knowing what happened
is it's pretty it's I got I'm pretty
confident there you know with with with
you know the the likelihood of who I'm
gonna right hustle with that's the thing
right yeah and and input and plus up you
know I have moxie you know I I got a lot
of attitude and that goes a long way you
know having that that could spa that
attitude sometimes it is equally
important to have that I have a thing in
my head that says I can be anybody
anything it doesn't have to be true but
that's what I hear in my head the
problem with that is when it's obviously
that's not true right then you're like
fuck yeah now what and then then you get
experience experiences so you get
shortly after you need it yeah yeah it's
it's it's interesting that you combine
those things though that you have this
gym where there's all this martial arts
stuff and then the
tactical stuff what do you do to chill
out because it seems like everything is
fucking Coco Coco Coco everything is
lifting weights shooting and pulling
ropes and shooting an arm drying and
shooting what do you do to calm yourself
I am hobby heavy hobby heavy well you
show me your drawing yeah I do very
talented I side draw a bird watch watch
yep I bet a bird watcher since I was 10
years old
really yeah Golf I go down this list
guitar drums cook let me see I got so
many freaking hobbies it's ridiculous
but the good thing about most MS I could
go to him and and it doesn't take me a
lot of time or energy to invest in it
fishing on big time fisherman
outdoorsman woodsman type of thing I
love that stuff I get into the Rocky
Mountains at least once a year and do
like privation training you know just on
my own so what do you do when you do
that just camp out there and live off
the land
yeah I'm trying to yep try try to
sustain you know with what I have and
what's available to me and it also you
do that once a year yeah and it also
includes a orienteering so you know one
over 24,000 scale topographical map and
so orienteer in and these are wilderness
areas not like national parks or forest
and then try to hunt a killer eat it you
know along the way carry I carry enough
food so I'm not gonna be miserable
mm-hmm so I'm not gonna suffer how many
days you doing you know well it it now
that I'm retired not four to five
anymore
yep you like being a rucksack or
something yep yep so I pack in yep
whatever whenever I need and you know
packing a ruck is uh it's a real it's a
it's artwork and sure even if you've
been in a military forever you know you
you just never ever get that down to a
perfect science right especially a
weight yeah because I got weight you got
in terrain you got you know the
the situation may dictate to strip this
and add that and then were you gonna put
it and do you bring satellite phone or
anything we do it or you do i up i bring
up yeah i bring one of those the smart
ones yep roll an ankle out there well
plus I usually go to Montana like Bob
Marshall so that's boasts the highest
concentration of grizzle or 48 yeah so
you're not on the top of Fuji manners
hungries out there that's a fucking
scary spot yeah well it's it's always
usually pretty good unless you run into
a female yeah with their cubs yeah
that's that's when it gets super sketchy
I just wrote it I just wrote about that
that's not I write so I write for a
ballistic magazine and combat handguns
and I just wrote an article about that
ballistic about what should be in your
personal survival kit you know let's say
you go on a day fishing trip in Alaska
what should what do you have in that
thing mmm you know in the event that you
need to go into contingency planning
mode that shit hits the fan you got to
have something on you instead of just
your your Orvis fly rod and a couple
bead heads yeah it was a big debate with
hunters as should you bring bear spray
or should you bring a pistol yep
especially both yeah smart that I need
to anytime bear country I bring both I
got them both on and I've talked to a
lot of Griz hunters and I put that in
that article too so that guy's you know
I've done some research here but yeah so
I'll bring I'll bring both have you had
any encounters when you're out I've had
almost every year really the closest one
15 yards man yeah that was the first
time ever up there - and I'm smoked I'm
at the end this is what I was do I
started doing these when we were when I
was active so bringing up unit guys and
this one was 95 miles long we walk from
a little spot on the map Oh Columbia
falls south of Columbia Falls Montana to
Lincoln the home of Ted Kaczynski the
Unabomber reason yeah yeah that's where
you live yeah so walk this stretch it's
95 miles right north to south and you
gotta cross like three
for mountain passes and smoker so this I
think it was it was the fifth day
because we had one more ro and one more
rest overnight and on the fifth day I
had a we would walk like lines adrift
and stuff like that you know and if
whenever I couldn't see 25 yards up
ahead me I would you know clap my hands
make some racket coming through mark you
know that kind of thing
yeah because it Grizz want nothing to do
with you right you get in between their
young their food source or you startle
that's when you run into trouble right
um so I did not want to stand and Here I
am I'm and I've got six guys with me but
they're lagging behind and I you know
coming through and I look up ahead
and this gigantic male stands up booze
and the only thing that I could my only
reaction was whoa I mean I was just
blown think fifteen yards is less
distance than you flew when you crash
right here right flew in the air so you
can fly in the air that's right yep
Wow yep he took off boom he was gone
chance lucky yeah yeah yeah because
that's a lot that's a lot of animal yeah
I tell you when you're standing like in
the woods in the wild 50 yards 15 50
yards and when that thing stood up
that's all I could I mean I had a gun
and bear spray on me I wait for you
think it's whoa and then when he took
off my next thought was where's my
camera oh Jesus
well that's nature's cleanup crew right
there anything the limps falls down
fucks up yep that's what it's there for
that's why there's a thousand pounds of
them man it needs to keep beating yeah
it's a it's a majestic animal yeah see
one in the wild you you realize like wow
like this is just nature has a system
yep they know what they're doing when
they want to get rid of a moose they
send one of these motherfuckers in there
yep really yeah so when you're doing
these these things are you keeping a
journal when you
these trips for you by yourself um oh I
use go by myself I usually have strap
hangers and they're different every year
and it's a lot of times just like this
you know a couple guys talking saying oh
man I'd like to do that with you or just
send me an email and I'll send you the
dates oh wow
because one is securities and numbers
right especially in Greece country yeah
plus I like teaching stuff so yeah I'll
have guys who I could teach like
orienteering and you know field craft
you know making a fire with some kind of
that kind of thing and the right way to
maybe to prep and cook a trout you know
so you bring a rod with you yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah small breakdown rods yep
a bring a file I'll bring two I'll bring
a tell us telescoping uh Ted cholera and
a four piece like a five-way Orvis okay
because it's my rod then yeah okay so I
am
for me that's sustenance because I'm not
taking a lot of food plus I want to fish
I wanted to be time off right I want a
chill I don't want to just work my ass
off when I'm on these so I'm out there
ripping lips but I'm eating two of them
in the morning and two at night and then
it's a lot it's a lot of fun I've been
doing these things now since 98 I think
it's a great way to decompress too but
yeah my the places I go to one of them
it I will lose SELCO cell phone coverage
an hour before I hit the end of the dirt
road yep so and then you stop the caller
you're at the end of the road now you're
you know you're already in you're just
at the edge of the wilderness area deep
into a national forest right and then
into the wilderness for you know however
many days miles run another folks in
you're out there very rarely the best
you know I loved walking like on the 95
mile one and seeing nobody yeah nobody
yep I mean those these places are remote
the Frank church and yeah Idaho
I'd walk the Wind River in Wyoming the
the Frank church I walk from the town of
salmon to McCall that one smoked me how
far is that they did it on a scale
things as a crow flies it's not that far
I think it's 60 miles or something but
it's straight up straight down the the
most horrific and just terrifying
terrain I mean especially if you're you
know if your objective is to move from
point A to point B and not just now back
let me see how far I can go know when
you got somebody picking you up at point
B do you have to be there right oh man
it's a freakin smoker yeah I've never
been in the Frank church but my friend
Ryan Callahan was living up there for a
long time and school he says it's
amazing up there it's also so it's so
remote you know but yet it's so close to
Boise oh yeah that far right yeah right
yeah the grand scale themes things it's
not it's not that fall all right
but there's when you have these
wilderness areas like I don't know let's
say it's 500 million square acres or
whatever is you know that's also
encompassed by national parks and stuff
yeah and you know national parks will
have dirt roads and I'm and now have
little scatterings of population here
and there but those will nurseries
there's nothing in those yeah they're
just animals
yeah there's yeah there's no dirt roads
and it's such a complete ecosystem to
have everything from wolves to Grizzlies
to mule deer to elk it's all living up
in there yeah and it's it's good they
are cool I mean I love doing those too
because you have to think there isn't
there is an element of danger here that
that can kill me and it's not just a big
hungry you could get cut Josh or out
there because nobody's coming to get you
even if you got that beacon
you know Forest Service and stuff
they're probably busy servicing you know
grandma broke a leg trying to take a
picture of a bison in this National Park
coming into that nashit that will do
serie you know there's no HL Z's there
it's nothing like that
so and you'd I love that that element of
danger especially since I retired you
know I want to be cold tired hungry and
maybe a little scared and I want that
several times a year because uh that's
you know it's primal right and I think
most guys need that
Taizo ya know I think so too
dude you live in a fun life man yeah and
I enjoy following right on appreciate it
I appreciate you coming on man I really
do do so tell people one more time your
websites yeah my my website is Tmax
ink.com TM ACS I'm calm and the other
one is combat sports training calm
combat strength training combat strength
training yep and then I got a my my IG
is uh at t max Inc all right beautiful
fun and then my youtube channels it's
just Pat Mac pack you tube a lot of
information good times my friend thank
you thanks for coming on hell yeah man
thank you freakin awesome
[Music]
[Applause]